Draft of the 'Secure InnerSource' pattern (aka 'Balancing Openness and Security') (#384)
gruetter/innerSourceTest: patterns/1-initial/secure-innersource.md

Some helpful practices are:

- Form an InnerSource task force with representatives from Security, Legal, Engineering, and the ISPO to align on the goals of InnerSource adoption.
- Start with a limited scope to lower the potential security impact caused by the adoption.
- List the security concerns and figure out mitigation plans together within the task force.
- Clearly define the different sharing levels of repositories that you want to use in your organization *(Note: A more elaborate model is described under **Extension: An Additional Sharing Level**)*:
    - **PUBLIC** - open source: accessible for all SW developers in the world
    - **SHARED** - inner source: accessible for all SW developers in the company
    - **CLOSED** - closed source: only accessible to named individuals in the company

## Execution

How to allow for a greater amount of SHARED code in the organizations depends a lot on the specific business domain, related regulations, and concerns identified in the initial meetings of the InnerSource task force as mentioned above.

> Following are some common concerns that many organizations may have, and how to address them.

Author: ```suggestion
Following are some practices that have proven to be helpful in reducing security concerns and allowing for a greater amount of SHARED code.

### Split out the 'secret sauce' into separate repos

Separate highly specific, differentiating code (the 'secret sauce') from code that is considered commodity in the company (e.g. infrastructure, platform, and UI components). 
By placing them in separate repositories, you increase your chances of offering the commodity code as SHARED repos, while the 'secret sauce' may stay CLOSED.
```

# Resulting Context

Many times the InnerSource adoption in an organization will [start as an experiment][start-as-an-experiment], with a small number of SHARED repositories.

If the task force (and with that Security and Legal) collaborate in this early phase already, they can make joint experiences with how security-related issues can be identified and addressed. This also allows the Security Teams to build up more confidence on InnerSource from a security angle.

The defined sharing levels for repositories provide guidance on what sharing level to use for what type of repository content. The increased security awareness of the engineers and more secure setup of the source code management systems increases overall software development security.

With the increased confidence and lessons learned from this experiment, the task force faces less pushback when rolling out InnerSource to more repositories.

Most importantly, the changes implemented through this pattern lead to more code being shared between teams, and closed source will no longer be the obvious default.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

- **INTERNAL** - inner source: findable and accessible for all SW developers in the company
- **RESTRICTED** - restricted source: findable for all SW developers in the company, low-friction process to gain full access.
- **CLOSED** - closed source: only accessible to named individuals and not findable via the search engine for other SW developers in the company.

Repositories with RESTRICTED sharing level are included in the [central catalog][innersource-portal] and/or fed into the central search mechanism, together with their `README.md` and some meta information. Their full content however, is not accessible without following a light-weight access request process. This can for example be contacting one of the code owners or some other request mechanism described in the `README.md` file.

Notes:

- This will likely have an impact on contributions due to the additional step to access the code.
- It is feasible to use a tool that automatically adds the `README.md` and some other meta-data to an internal repository in GitHub, allowing the GitHub search feature to include this data in the search results.

# Resulting Context

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

- Start with a limited scope to lower the potential security impact caused by the adoption.
- List the security concerns and figure out mitigation plans together within the task force.
- Clearly define the different sharing levels of repositories that you want to use in your organization *(Note: A more elaborate model is described under **Extension: An Additional Sharing Level**)*:
    - **PUBLIC** - open source: accessible for all SW developers in the world
    - **SHARED** - inner source: accessible for all SW developers in the company
    - **CLOSED** - closed source: only accessible to named individuals in the company

## Execution

How to allow for a greater amount of SHARED code in the organizations depends a lot on the specific business domain, related regulations, and concerns identified in the initial meetings of the InnerSource task force as mentioned above.

Following are some practices that have proven to be helpful in reducing security concerns and allowing for a greater amount of SHARED code.

### Split out the 'secret sauce' into separate repos

> Separate highly specific, differentiating code (the 'secret sauce') from code that is considered commodity in the company (e.g. infrastructure, platform, and UI components). 

Author: ```suggestion
Separate highly specific, differentiating code (the 'secret sauce') from code that is considered commodity in the company (e.g. infrastructure, platform, and UI components).
```

And given findability is also important, adding the additional level that facilitates findability, but still provides a light-weight access gate could be an appropriate way to prevent too many CLOSED repositories.

As a concrete example, which allows repositories to be discovered, even though there is no company-wide access, consider the following sharing levels:

- **PUBLIC** - open source: findable and accessible for all SW developers in the world

> - **INTERNAL** - inner source: findable and accessible for all SW developers in the company

Author: @bartgolsteijn what is called INTERNAL here, is the same as what is called SHARED in line 52. I am wondering if we might confuse the reader by renaming it?

What if we would keep all names the same, and just add RESTRICTED?

Reviewer: Fine with me.

Context: these are the names used my company. 
Also depends a bit on how you view it: introducing an additional level between SHARED and CLOSED or splitting the SHARED level in more and less shared. 

Given I am biassed in this, I prefer others decide.

Author: Let's leave it as is for now then. 

I will leave this thread open for future reference.

# Title

> Secure InnerSource

Author: Naming things is hard, which is also true for patterns :)

Especially when using the term **InnerSource** in pattern titles we want to be careful, as otherwise all InnerSource patterns end up with that term in the title.

Some alternative proposals:
- Security and InnerSource
- Satisfying Security Concerns
- Addressing Security Concerns
- Security Concerns and Mitigation
- Working with Security
- Security and Transparency
- Security and Discoverability
- Secure Discoverability
- Discoverability in a Secure Way

Titles are often named either after the **problem** they address, or the **solution** they propose.

Anybody got an idea for a great title? Please comment.

Reviewer: Balancing Openness and Security

Author: Secure Code Sharing

Author: Repository Sharing Levels

Author: I am opting for the title "Balancing Openness and Security" for now.
Will also add some of the alternative proposals here to the "Alias" section of the pattern.

When we level up the pattern to higher states of maturity, e.g. by getting more orgs to confirm how they are using this pattern, we can reconsider what the best name for this is.

And yes, naming is hard :)

# Patlet

> A collaborative InnerSource practice in a company benefits from a maximum level of shared source code, to allow participants from outside of the core team to contribute and re-use. In contrast to that, a functioning security practice demands to give the users the last amount of access to perform their job. By implementing various security measures and defining multiple sharing levels for different types of code, sharing and collaboration can be facilitated while minimizing the risks of code-leak and malicious code injection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A collaborative InnerSource practice in a company benefits from a maximum level of shared source code, to allow participants from outside of the core team to contribute and re-use. In contrast to that, a common security practice is to give users the least amount of access they need to perform their job. By implementing various security measures and defining multiple sharing levels for different types of code, sharing and collaboration can be facilitated while minimizing the risks of code-leak and malicious code injection.
```

# Problem

> A successful InnerSource program needs openness and transparency (e.g. access to code, issues, documentation, and roadmap), while good security practice is to minimize access, following the [principle of least privilege][principle-of-least-privilege]. How to balance and implement these seemingly contradicting requirements?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A successful InnerSource program needs openness and transparency (e.g. access to code, issues, documentation, and roadmap), while good security practice is to minimize access, following the [principle of least privilege][principle-of-least-privilege]. How to balance and address these seemingly contradicting requirements?
```

# Story

> Most companies developing proprietary software will have source code that they do not want to leave the company, as this would harm their business. Think what would happen when the major competitors would have access to their latest features and would know what they are working on next. Even when the source code management system is not compromised from the outside, malicious employees or interns could leak code to the competition. Or think about gaining access to sensitive systems and services using credentials that are hard-coded in source code. Or injection of malicious code into a product’s codebase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most companies developing proprietary software will have source code that they do not want to leave the company, as this may harm their business. Think what would happen when the major competitors would have access to their latest features and would know what they are working on next. Even when the source code management system is not compromised from the outside, malicious employees or interns could leak code to the competition. Or think about gaining access to sensitive systems and services using credentials that are hard-coded in source code. Or injection of malicious code into a product’s codebase.
```

Restricting access typically reduces the risk of these things from happening, but at the same time hampers collaboration and re-use.

# Context

- The organization has an InnerSource Program Office (ISPO), or a similar group, steering the success of the InnerSource initiative in the organization. One of their goals is to stimulate maximum openness and transparency in the organization.
- The organization has a Security Team constraining unnecessary data access to prevent the organization from data-leakage and malicious code injection.
- The Security Team, ISPO, and engineering teams are not regularly talking with each other.

> - “Closed Source” is the default in the organization when creating new repositories i.e. only the team owning/maintaining the code has access to the given repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- “Closed Source” is the default in the organization when creating new repositories, i.e. only the team owning/maintaining the code has access to the given repo.
```

- “Shared Source” within the organization isn’t common practice. Organizational teams aren’t familiar with what code or information should or shouldn’t be placed in shared repositories.

# Forces

- A successful InnerSource program needs openness and transparency (e.g. access to code, issues, documentation, and roadmap)
- Good security practice is to minimize access, following the [principle of least privilege][principle-of-least-privilege].
- The Security Team is more familiar with security principles at conceptual level than security practices at operation level. Some of the security policy is good at concept but hard to execute at operation level.

> - Engineering Teams focus more on service/product development or knowledge sharing than on measures for data protection. While it is easy for Engineering Teams to decide to close or open the repository, they are usually not willing to spend time on judging how to reach a balance between both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Engineering Teams focus more on service/product development or knowledge sharing than on measures for data protection. While it is easy for Engineering Teams to decide to close or open the repository, they are usually not willing to spend time on judging how to reach a balance between both. Or to refactor their code in order to be able to share more.
```

> - No one-fit-all guideline or rules to judge what data or process is secured or not. That much depends on data sensitivity and overall security policy/infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- No one-fit-all guideline or rules to judge what data or process is to be secured or not. That much depends on data sensitivity and overall security policy/infrastructure.
```

# Solutions

To reduce the misalignment and possible misunderstanding between the teams involved, it is key to bring everybody together so that they are able to express their goals and concerns, and to develop shared language together.

After that they can decide as a group how to drive the execution of the specific goals, and what to do to reduce the risks that were identified.

## Setup

> Start by bringing the Security Team, Engineering Teams and ISPO together, to discuss the goals of the InnerSource initiative, as well as any security concerns.

Reviewer 2: From my experience, we also had to have one person from our legal team who we'd bring into these conversations as needed. The reason it had to be legal was, our internal data classification was owned by legal. So when our legal guidelines said "all software source code is confidential and therefore least privilege", we had to begin adding addendums and negotiate how to make exceptions to that classification.

Author: That makes sense. In some areas the concerns of the Security team and Legal team might even be overlapping.

Can you suggest a sentence that we could add? e.g. something like
> It may also be helpful to involve your Legal team in this phase, so that ...

Reviewer 2: > It may also be helpful to involve your Legal team in this phase, so that any data classification documents can be surfaced and included in the scope of the InnerSource program's charter.

Reviewer: Agree that including legal is a good thing, and it also helps in discussion with sceptics: "yes, we have people from Security and Legal on board".

Author: If I would read this without your prior statement I wouldn't get what "data classification documents" means. 
Is there a way to say this in different terms?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by bringing (representatives from) Engineering, Security, Legal, and the ISPO together, to discuss the goals of the InnerSource initiative, as well as any security concerns.
```

Some helpful practices are:

> - Form an InnerSource task force with representatives of Security, Engineering, and the ISPO to align on the goals of InnerSource adoption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Form an InnerSource task force with representatives from Security, Legal, Engineering, and the ISPO to align on the goals of InnerSource adoption.
```

- Start with a limited scope to lower the potential security impact caused by the adoption.
- List the security concerns and figure out mitigation plans together within the task force.
- Clearly define the different sharing levels of repositories that you want to use in your organization *(Note: A more elaborate model is described under **Extension: An Additional Sharing Level**)*:
    - **PUBLIC** - open source: accessible for all SW developers in the world
    - **SHARED** - inner source: accessible for all SW developers in the company
    - **CLOSED** - closed source: only accessible to named individuals in the company

## Execution

> How to allow for a greater amount of SHARED repositories in the organizations depends a lot on the specific business domain, related regulations, and concerns identified in the initial meetings of the InnerSource task force as mentioned above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to allow for a greater amount of SHARED code in the organizations depends a lot on the specific business domain, related regulations, and concerns identified in the initial meetings of the InnerSource task force as mentioned above.
```

> 

Reviewer: Consider adding:

**TIP:** Separate highly specific, differentiating code (the 'secret sauce') from code that is considered commodity in the company (e.g. infrastructure, platform, and UI components) and place them in separate repositories, as the former likely needs a higher level of protection than the latter.

Author: This is a great suggestion @bartgolsteijn ! 🚀 

I added it as its own sub-section below (see "### Split out the 'secret sauce' into separate repos"). Does this work for you?

I feel that this activity should probably done first, as it makes many of the following points easier.

Reviewer: Putting it in a separate section is fine with me.

I would not put it first however, increasing security awareness and configuring the SCM system should be done first. Splitting repositories and maybe refactoring (moving around code, injecting secrets via the environment, ...) can be done later. At least in a company with many CLOSED (legacy) repositories.

Author: Sounds good. I will move this accordingly.

> The following lists some common concerns that many organizations may have, and how to address them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following are some common concerns that many organizations may have, and how to address them.
```

### Security measures or policies to prevent malicious access to shared repositories (and reduce the impact of the same)

- Employee training about security awareness and individual responsibility
- Enhanced security measures on source code management system such as:
    - Eliminate anonymous access to source code (all users must be logged in to your Source Code Management tool), log the access to repositories
    - regular review by organization owners on created repositories and granted permission to organization members.
    - Set up [Single Sign-On][single-sign-on] against your organization’s identity provider. This will automatically revoke access in case somebody leaves the organization.
    - regular rotation of access token
    - 2FA authentication enforced
    - encourage the use of signed commits

> - Monitoring the source code management system for suspicious access e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Monitoring the source code management system for suspicious access, e.g.:
```

    - access from new accounts or new devices
    - downloading source code from new devices
    - downloading a great amount of source code in the monitoring period.

### Prevent sensitive information in shared repositories

> Build up agreed security requirement of InnerSource like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build up agreed security requirement of InnerSource, such as:
```

> - No hard-coded usernames and/or passwords.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- No hard-coded usernames, passwords or other access/security tokens in a repository.
```

> - Repo does not contain client information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- No client information in a repository.
```

- Business critical algorithms may not be placed in SHARED repositories.
- Code from SHARED repositories will not be distributed directly to Production.

> - Leveraging secrets scanning tools to scan the target repositories (including code, test cases, and helper scripts) for confidential data such as accounts, passwords, access tokens, keys, and other sensitive data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Leverage secrets scanning tools to scan the target repositories (including code, test cases, and helper scripts) for confidential data such as accounts, passwords, access tokens, keys, and other sensitive data.
```

- Keep repositories CLOSED, but expose metadata about the projects (i.e. through an [InnerSource Portal][innersource-portal]), and create some kind of access request workflow. This way you could still give people access to the code, but not open it to everyone by default. *(Note: The full model is described under **Extension: An Additional Sharing Level**)*

### Extension: An Additional Sharing Level

> In some cases, introducing additional sharing levels might be appropriate. Use cases include semi-sensitive code that can be shared with larger groups of people, but for example not with all interns and contractors. Or not with people with certain nationalities or working in a specific country, in order to comply with [export control][export-control] regulations. Or legacy repositories that are not (yet) ready to be made available as INTERNAL. Without the additional level, (too) many repositories will end up as CLOSED in an existing organization, as all businesses will considering their code 'special', requiring extra protection and/or 'not ready for opening up company wide yet (e.g. hard-coded secrets, but also technical debt, lacking documentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, introducing additional sharing levels might be appropriate. Use cases include semi-sensitive code that can be shared with larger groups of people, but for example not with all interns and contractors. Or not with people with certain nationalities or working in a specific country, in order to comply with [export control][export-control] regulations. Or legacy repositories that are not (yet) ready to be made available as SHARED. Without the additional level, (too) many repositories will end up as CLOSED in an existing organization, as all businesses will considering their code 'special', requiring extra protection and/or 'not ready for opening up company wide yet (e.g. hard-coded secrets, but also technical debt, lacking documentation).
```

> And given 'findability' is also important, adding the additional level that facilitates findability, but still provides a light-weight gate seems to be a good way out to steer projects out of closed source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And given findability is also important, adding the additional level that facilitates findability, but still provides a light-weight access gate could be an appropriate way to prevent too many CLOSED repositories.
```

> As concrete example, which allows repositories to be discovered, even though there is no company-wide access, consider the following sharing levels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a concrete example, which allows repositories to be discovered, even though there is no company-wide access, consider the following sharing levels:
```

- **PUBLIC** - open source: findable and accessible for all SW developers in the world
- **INTERNAL** - inner source: findable and accessible for all SW developers in the company
- **RESTRICTED** - restricted source: findable for all SW developers in the company, low-friction process to gain full access.
- **CLOSED** - closed source: only accessible to named individuals and not findable via the search engine for other SW developers in the company.

> Repositories with RESTRICTED sharing level are included in the [central catalog][innersource-portal] and/or fed into the central search mechanism, together with their `README.md` and some meta information. Their content, however, is not accessible without following a light-weight access request process. This can for example be contacting one of the code owners or some other request mechanism described in the `README.md` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Repositories with RESTRICTED sharing level are included in the [central catalog][innersource-portal] and/or fed into the central search mechanism, together with their `README.md` and some meta information. Their full content however, is not accessible without following a light-weight access request process. This can for example be contacting one of the code owners or some other request mechanism described in the `README.md` file.
```

Notes:

- This will likely have an impact on contributions due to the additional step to access the code.
- It is feasible to use a tool that automatically adds the `README.md` and some other meta-data to an internal repository in GitHub, allowing the GitHub search feature to include this data in the search results.

# Resulting Context

> *What is the situation after the problem has been solved? The original context is changed indirectly by way of the solution. Often this section can include discussion of the next possible Patterns/problems introduced. This section can be short in content - the solution may not introduce new problems or change much context.*

Author: ```suggestion
```

Will remove this explanation before merging the PR.

Many times the InnerSource adoption in an organization will [start as an experiment][start-as-an-experiment], with a small number of SHARED repositories.

> If the task force (and with that the Security Team) collaborate in this early phase already, they can make joint experiences with how security-related issues can be identified and addressed. This also allows the Security Teams to build up more confidence on InnerSource from a security angle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the task force (and with that Security and Legal) collaborate in this early phase already, they can make joint experiences with how security-related issues can be identified and addressed. This also allows the Security Teams to build up more confidence on InnerSource from a security angle.
```

With the increased confidence and lessons learned from this experiment, the task force faces less pushback when rolling out InnerSource to more repositories.

> 

Reviewer: Consider adding

The defined sharing levels for repositories provide guidance on what sharing level to use for what type of repository content. The increased security awareness of the engineers and more secure set up of the source code management systems increases overall software development security.

Author: Done.

Most importantly, the changes implemented through this pattern lead to more code being shared between teams, and closed source will no longer be the obvious default.

- Definition of sharing levels for repositories, with accompanying guidance of which level to use for what type of repository contents.
- Increased InnerSource awareness in Security team
- Increased security awareness in engineering teams
- Increased collaboration between ISPO, Engineering and Security teams
- More code will be shared between teams, closed source is no longer the obvious default

> - Concrete implementation of security practices, potentially (partially) automated.

Author: These bullets have not been worked into the prose above yet.

When using parts of the Solution in this section, rather than just repeating it we want to make sure to describe how the Solution has been improving upon the Problem, and affecting/improving the (Initial) Context.

This can be hard to do at times but it helps to think through which specific change we want to see after the Solution has been put in place. We can think of this like Key Performance Indicators that show us whether the pattern had the expected impacted.

Reviewer: First attempt to translate bullet points onto prose

Reviewer: By adding the previously mentioned sentence, I think the bullets are covered.

# Known Instances

> TBD

Reviewer 2: Would this be where you put companies that follow this pattern? If so, my previous employer, Verizon, follows this to a T.

Reviewer 2: @spier

Author: @conrogers yes exactly. Theoretically you can just add the company the company name here.

However, it becomes more meaningful if we can add a couple of sentences about how the pattern is used at the given org. For example [as done here](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/main/patterns/2-structured/document-your-guiding-principles.md#known-instances).

Do you still have somebody at Verizon that you would like to pull in here, who can speak to how the pattern is used?

Reviewer: Please add Philips. For now without implementation details, these can be added later when certain mechanisms have been implemented and validated.

Author: @bartgolsteijn I added Philips.

Author: @conrogers we made some good progress on the review. Therefore we are likely to merge this pattern as an Initial pattern shortly. For patterns in that maturity we don't need Known Instances yet.

If we should merge this PR before you get back to this thread, would you mind opening a new issue, mentioning the opportunity to possibly add Verizon as a Known Instance?

Reviewer 2: Oh yes, please go ahead and add Verizon. I was there only a few months ago and know the developer and manager over the innersource effort. I'll ask if Kendra would like to add details but truthfully I can add all the detes myself haha.

Author: Awesome. Added!

> 

Author: ```suggestion

* Philips
```

Notes:

- This will likely have an impact on contributions due to the additional step to access the code.
- It is feasible to use a tool that automatically adds the `README.md` and some other meta-data to an internal repository in GitHub, allowing the GitHub search feature to include this data in the search results.

# Resulting Context

*What is the situation after the problem has been solved? The original context is changed indirectly by way of the solution. Often this section can include discussion of the next possible Patterns/problems introduced. This section can be short in content - the solution may not introduce new problems or change much context.*

Many times the InnerSource adoption in an organization will [start as an experiment][start-as-an-experiment], with a small number of SHARED repositories.

If the task force (and with that Security and Legal) collaborate in this early phase already, they can make joint experiences with how security-related issues can be identified and addressed. This also allows the Security Teams to build up more confidence on InnerSource from a security angle.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

The defined sharing levels for repositories provide guidance on what sharing level to use for what type of repository content. The increased security awareness of the engineers and more secure setup of the source code management systems increases overall software development security.

```

# Resulting Context

InnerSource adoption in an organization will often [start as an experiment][start-as-an-experiment], with a small number of SHARED repositories.

If the task force (and with that Security and Legal) collaborate in this early phase already, they can make joint experiences with how security-related issues can be identified and addressed. This also allows the Security Teams to build up more confidence on InnerSource from a security angle.

The defined sharing levels for repositories provide guidance on what sharing level to use for what type of repository content. The increased security awareness of the engineers and more secure setup of the source code management systems increases overall software development security.

With the increased confidence and lessons learned from this experiment, the task force faces less pushback when rolling out InnerSource to more repositories.

Most importantly, the changes implemented through this pattern lead to more code being shared between teams, and closed source will no longer be the obvious default.

# Known Instances

* Philips

> TBD

Author: ```suggestion
* Verizon
```

> - Definition of sharing levels for repositories, with accompanying guidance of which level to use for what type of repository contents.
> - Increased InnerSource awareness in Security team
> - Increased security awareness in engineering teams
> - Increased collaboration between ISPO, Engineering and Security teams
> - More code will be shared between teams, closed source is no longer the obvious default
> - Concrete implementation of security practices, potentially (partially) automated.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Removing bullets, based on content that Bart worked into the Resulting Context as prose.

# Title

Secure InnerSource

# Patlet

While InnerSource flourishes in environments with a high degree of shared code, Security/Legal prefers the limitation of source code access to only those that need it.

> By making Security/Legal part of the team, introducing explicit sharing levels, and defining what qualifies as sensitive information, code sharing can be facilitated while minimizing the associated risks.

Author: @bartgolsteijn I tried myself on a shortened Patlet. What do you think of it?

Reviewer: @spier I like the shorter patlet.

Consider adding  [...] introducing explicit sharing levels **and security policies for shared repostories**, and defining what [...]

This covers the the 'SCM setup' and 'Prevent sensitive information in shared repositories' sections. If we leave this out, people might skip the pattern for having too little substance.

# Title

Secure InnerSource

# Patlet

While InnerSource flourishes in environments with a high degree of shared code, Security/Legal prefers the limitation of source code access to only those that need it.

> By making Security/Legal part of the team, introducing explicit sharing levels, and defining what qualifies as sensitive information, code sharing can be facilitated while minimizing the associated risks.

Author: ```suggestion
By making Security/Legal part of the team, introducing explicit sharing levels and security policies for shared repositories, as well as defining what qualifies as sensitive information, code sharing can be facilitated while minimizing the associated risks.
```

I have worked in your suggestion.

The Patlet is always a trade-off between repeating the whole solution and staying concise. I can certainly see that adding the info about the "security policies" will help the readers though.
